rss/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: All Paul Sztorc Bitcoin Media Appearances
---



I've enjoyed speaking on many podcasts hosted by other people, but personally I am not sure that I am cut out to be a podcast host:

* Attracting and keeping an audience is hard work, and takes a lot of time.
* I don't like the idea of doing a "regular" show -- ie, a show every week (or so). I'd rather only do a show if I have something important to say. Something worthy of people's scarce time and attention.
* As a podcast audience grows, the "audience capture" problem can arise, where a host gives people what they want to hear instead of speaking his mind. 

Instead, I'm happy to go on *other people's shows* (invite me on! -- I almost always say yes!). Here I collect my appearances and interviews in a big list.



<!--
howtogeek.com/318401/how-to-find-or-create-an-rss-feed-for-any-website/
-->


### All Paul Sztorc Content

<a href="https://www.truthcoin.info/rss/paul-sztorc-rss.xml">
<img src="https://www.truthcoin.info/rss/pic_rss.gif" width="36" height="14">
</a>

<div class="appearances-list" markdown="1">

### General

| Date | Title/Link | Length | Comments |
|-|-|-|-|
|May 23, 2023|[Demolishing Dogmas: The Rebels Reshaping the Bitcoin Battlefield and Crypto's Radical Architects Neel Somani, Leonard Dorlochter, and Paul Sztorc](https://www.untoldstories.com/demolishing-dogmas-the-rebels-reshaping-the-bitcoin-battlefield-and-cryptos-radical-architects-neel-somani-leonard-dorlochter-and-paul-sztorc/)|1h,14m,0s|Paul Sztorc discusses exciting layer-2 solutions with Charlie Shrem, Neel Somani, and Leonard Dorlochter.|
|Jan 26, 2023|[Australian Bitcoin Podcast -- Paul Sztorc What are Sidechains and Drivechains Made](https://youtu.be/XJ_PNmCo4b0)|1h,31m,32s|Paul Sztorc is interviewed on the history of sidechains, merged mining, and Drivechain.|
|Jan 15, 2023|[Shitcoin TV -- Paul Sztorc on Bitcoin Sidechains](https://youtu.be/29PVPJilHcA)|36m,33s|Paul Sztorc is interviewed regarding Drivechain, the Hivemind project, and the future.|
|Jan 19, 2023|[The Kevin Rooke Podcast -- Paul Sztorc on Drivechain (BIP 300/301), Bitcoin Sidechains, and Building Layer Two Labs](https://youtu.be/Z0Ax61bLTIM)|2h,6m,14s|Kevin Rooke interviews Paul Sztorc on the history of Drivechain, the advantages and disadvantages of sidechains on Bitcoin, and the founding of LayerTwo Labs.|
|Dec 23, 2022|[The Mining Pod (Compass Mining)-- Drivechains For Miners? Exploring Layer 2's](https://youtu.be/Q6RuM2I-gGQ)|45m,32s|Will Foxley interviews Paul Sztorc and Austin Alexander on the founding of their Bitcoin-focused company, LayerTwo Labs, Inc.|
|Nov 22, 2022|[Bitcoin Takeover -- Paul Sztorc on Baltic HoneyBadger 2022 & BIP300](https://youtu.be/jVkjlue7f8M)|54m,2s|Vlad Costea and Paul Sztorc discuss Baltic HoneyBadger 2022 and BIP300.|
|Oct 12, 2022|[Bitcoin 2022 Amsterdam -- The Future of Sidechains](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CuKPIUO1pVA)|36m,12s|Aaron van Wirdum proves to the world that yes, after all, Adam Back does indeed support Bip300.|
|Sep 4, 2022|[Baltic Honeybadger 2022 -- Panel: Unpopular Opinions](https://youtu.be/Hdx5qUvYcgA?t=1234)|1hr,15m|A very fun panel with other Bitcoiners.|
|Sep 3, 2022|[Baltic Honeybadger 2022 -- Debate: Paul vs Carvalho](https://youtu.be/zp1B_i4JlXc?t=11100)|22m,3s|Does John Carvalho know anything about Drivechain? Should any user who wants to leave BTC for a different ruleset be stopped, against their own will? Find out here!|
|Sep 3, 2022|[Baltic Honeybadger 2022 -- Panel: Sidechains & L2](https://youtu.be/zp1B_i4JlXc?t=5220)|30m|The main conclusion was that Bitcoin will need a diverse "spectrum" of L2s; Bitcoin should rely only on the Lightning Network.|
|Aug 12, 2022|[What Bitcoin Did - Should Drivechains Come to Bitcoin?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A4VVVhwuCFI)|1hr,20m,38s|Me on the famous Peter McCormack show. I think the beginning was a little rough, but they eventually seemed to get it.|
|Aug 11, 2022|[Built on Bitcoin #83](https://www.builtonbitcoin.xyz/e83-bip300-the-bitcoin-change-that-makes-all-others-obsolete-paul-sztorc-interview/)|1hr,04m,05s|This interview went really well! We talked about Bip300 and its status in today's Bitcoin culture.|
|Jul 12, 2022|[Bitcoin Maximalism Spaces w/ Pete Rizzo](https://twitter.com/i/spaces/1gqxvllkrnpGB)|1hr,53m,58s|A conversation where I say Bitcoin Maximalism has absorbed many harmful ideas which it struggles to purge, leading to risk for Bitcoin owners.|
|Apr 8, 2022|[Bitcoin 2022 - Sidechains (Benefits & Tradeoffs)](https://youtu.be/OwJL0J_nPDE?t=11866)|40m|My sidechains panel; RSK; Liquid; development; fun.|
|Apr 7, 2022|[Bitcoin 2022 - Soft Forks (Benefits & Tradeoffs)](https://youtu.be/L0Yh6VP6vxU?t=7011)|40m|Softforks panel w/ me, Jeremy Rubin, Jimmy Song; moderated by BtcSessions.|
|Apr 7, 2022|[Kitco - Bitcoin 2022 Media Room](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Elm35rym74U)|16m|An interesting interview -- basics of the Bitcoin investment thesis, macroeconomics, and of course sidechains.|
|Nov 5, 2021|[TabConf 2021 - BIP 300](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NK2IvzDz7pk)|25m,44s|Even *better* than the June Bitcoin2021 talk -- 10 minutes longer.|
|Aug 12, 2021|[Blockchain Debate Podcast: Toxic maximalism (Giacomo Zucco vs. Me)](https://blockdebate.buzzsprout.com/767033/9020992-motion-toxic-maximalism-is-great-for-bitcoin-giacomo-zucco-vs-paul-sztorc)|1h,34m,31s|Giacomo and I talk about toxic maximalism. We agreed more than disagreed. I think the conversation would have been more interesting if we interrupted each other more. Too polite and not very toxic.|
|Jul 3, 2021|[Bip 300 Debate: JW Weatherman vs Me](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PziBY3qOS48)|1h,21m,43s|In my opening remarks I mentioned that Drivechain was an improvement over Blockstream's 2014 paper. I regret mentioning that, because I think this guy is so clueless that it never occured to him to look up any of the technical details whatsoever. I could have instead, just asked him 'what is bip300' and he would have gone down in flames immediately. Anyway, he was clearly unprepared making this mostly a waste of everyone's time.|
|Jun 10, 2021|[Drivechain Q&A - Paul Sztorc at Crosschain Miami](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m8nN-SSBr1g)|22m,37s|Me, in Miami, being brought onstage unexpectedly after a night of drinking to do a Drivechain Q&A.|
|Jun 10, 2021|[Bitcoin 2021: Drivechain Demo (BIP 300)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oga8Pwbq9M0)|15m,57s|Bip300 explained... in just 15 minutes! Highly recommended.|
|Mar 1, 2021|[ZCash Sidechain](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N33iJK2FdpE)|21m,58s|Me, demo-ing our zcash sidechain. As well as my "melt/cast" privacy technology.|
|Dec 20, 2020|[Silent Night V3](https://twitter.com/mikeinspace/status/1340698646074015746?s=20)|1m,11s|Shorter, and with no mikeinspace, this time!|
|Dec 17, 2020|[A Bitcoin Christmas: Silent Night](https://youtu.be/737mPDwhaQM)|1m,47s|Me playing piano in mikeinspace's Twitter band.|
|Dec 16, 2020|[Bitcoin Stories Episode 048](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HQ3fqkPeQCc&feature=emb_logo)|1h,30m,35s|A really great talk where I answer the "Thiel Question" -- what's something you believe that most people don't agree with you on: many of the people you love will die because of the US stance toward betting. Thanks to Zack Hess for fixing up the audio.|
|Dec 14, 2020|[Bitcoin Reservations #004 - Smart wife asterisk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BDIK2IBqCUk)|2h,33m,20s|Show is finally starting to get good.|
|Dec 7, 2020|[Bitcoin Reservations #003 - Twin sister hard fork](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a70vaR_dFJ0)|2h,33m,20s|Still the beginnings aren't great, but they are getting there.|
|Nov 30, 2020|[Bitcoin Reservations #002 - The prodigal son](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rn0NaAyNFDA)|2h,16m,37s|The beginning isn't good at all but, it picks up steam quickly.|
|Nov 23, 2020|[Bitcoin Reservations #001 - Opposite of Meditation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qj4O6d48nlQ)|2h,19m,07s|A new podcast that (sort of) pays homage to Bitcoin Uncensored.|
|Nov 13, 2020|[CryptoVoices - Drivechain & Bitcoin Hivemind](https://soundcloud.com/cryptovoices/show-98-paul-sztorc-drivechain-bitcoin-hivemind-and-much-more)|3h,11m,49s|Good (and long) discussion of my two big interests/projects (sidechains and prediction markets), and my general approach to life.|
|Sep 17, 2020|[Me & Rafael LaVerde (VamosVigiliante), on Drivechain](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BbcIAaWScUc&feature=emb_logo)|1h,46m,11s|The third of three videos in my "week of BTC vs BCH/BSV debates". Rafael asked really good questions and is a great example of the kind of person I was hoping that drivechain and hivemind would appeal to. Lighter and more down to earth than the other two.|
|Sep 16, 2020|[BTC BCH BSV. Me vs Steve Patterson](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qdDwwMKb2ow)|2h,13m,58s|Steve seems to be a real independent thinker, and a semi-outcast in BCH -- a similar position to me in BTC. I refuse to "cluster" my beliefs (ie, to ALWAYS believe the ALL the same things the other Maximalists), and Steve seems to act likewise. After we recorded this, we kept talking for like 3 more hours.|
|Sep 13, 2020|[Me (BTC) vs Daniel Krawisz (BSV), on Partyline](https://twitter.com/MDF_365/status/1305224590679896064?s=20)|1h,40m,47s|My duel with the infamous Emperor of Bitcoin. I was very worried that I would be crushed, and [prepared extensively](https://www.truthcoin.info/files/2020-09-13-krawisz-debate-prep.pdf). It seemed to pay off, because although he definitely controlled the very beginning, I got some good points in throughout.|
|Apr 6, 2020|[Delphi Podcast - Security Budget - Dan Held vs Paul Sztorc](https://anchor.fm/the-delphi-podcast/episodes/Dan-Held-and-Paul-Sztorc-Debating-Bitcoins-Security-e1fn2kn)|1h,16m,51s|In what will go down as one of the most depressing periods in Bitcoin's history, the age of delusional bitcoin optimists, arrives this stupid debate with Dan Held. It is not worth watching because Dan was wrong about everything.|
|Mar 17, 2020|[Me on Shitcoin.tv again](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9QjqPQIjccw)|31m,34s|I REALLY enjoyed this talk. I think it is the type of content that you can't get anywhere else. Zcash as a sidechain, Handshake and decentralized naming, MimbleWimbleCoin shilling, Bitcoin maximalism once again|
|Feb 25, 2020|Marty Bent's [Tales from The Crypt #136](https://anchor.fm/tales-from-the-crypt/episodes/136-Paul-Sztorc-eb2i11)|2h,29m,22s|This podcast suffered from a long (and unexpected) digression into Proof of Stake at the very beginning (I guess that a lot of people would find it not interesting). Then it gets better -- fee market, Drivechain, and Prediction Markets.|
|Nov 8, 2019|[BTC vs BCH Debate - Me vs. Vin Armani, Hosted by Hotep Jesus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TkJt20f8tw4)|2h,36m,53s|To be honest with you, I was totally distracted during this conversation. It probably sounds silly to you, but my mind was blown that a reality TV star and marketer for 50 cent would be interested in my opinion on anything. Plus Vin was buttering me up the whole time before and during the show!|
|Sep 12, 2019|[Me on "A Game of Shitcoins"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i9hBAhr65lI)|9m,06s|Trivia contest vs the great Andreas Brekken.|
|Jul 18, 2019|[Unhashed Podcast #42](https://www.unhashedpodcast.com/episodes/paul-sztorc-prediction-markets)|2h,00m,29s|Prediction markets in theory and practice, Veil, VeriBlock, BTCPay Server, Trump, LN justice transactions". Unhashed is probably the best Bitcoin podcast of 2019-2020.|
|Jun 25, 2019|[Bitcoin 2019 Krawisz Ambush](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yxv5zTX9GeQ)|5m,23s|This is one of my favorite things to ever happen -- Daniel Krawisz randomly ambushing people to grill them on BSV. I literally had no idea what he would ask and knew it would be adversarial "gotcha" journalism, but I just like DK so much I thought it would be fun to walk into the lion's den. Honestly I had a lot of fun people seemed to like my answers.|
|Dec 19, 2018|[Me on Shitcoin.TV](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=otctbwsZzfI)|1h,00m,00s|Discussion of drivechain, hivemind, and more. These guys are the best :)|
|Sep 30, 2018|[Let's Talk Bitcoin #377 -- Drivechains (and the Apple Store)](https://letstalkbitcoin.com/blog/post/lets-talk-bitcoin-377-sidechains-drivechains-and-the-apple-store)|48m,34s|I return to LTB -- the guys try to help me explain Drivechain.|
|Oct 10, 2018|[Whalepool Interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VmN6riYe2tI)|2h,44,38s|I remember this as conversation among crticial Maximalists - sort of. "Immense knowledge dropped on bitcoin development, prediction markets, and much more in a 3 hour talk from Paul Sztorc!"|
|Aug 21st 2018|[Humans of Bitcoin (1) - A True Bitcoin Polymath](https://www.stitcher.com/show/humans-of-bitcoin/episode/a-true-bitcoin-polymath-paul-sztorc-part-1-55778509)|33m,00s|I was interviewed for the (then) new Bitcoin.com podcast. As often happens, I talked so much that they had to cut it into two parts. This part is more about me and my history.|
|Aug 21, 2018|[Humans of Bitcoin (2) - Blockchain Prediction Markets](https://www.stitcher.com/show/humans-of-bitcoin/episode/prediction-markets-decision-making-and-politics-paul-sztorc-part-2-55881058)|33m,26s|Part 2 -- I talk a lot about prediction markets and their usage.|
|Jul 5, 2018|[Paul Sztorc Explores Bitcoin Conflicts and Controversies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eOZFJW4HGxk)|49m, 26s|Justin Bons (BCH supporter) and I disagreed about some things, but agreed about some other things (like how silly Bitcoin Core is getting, and how important competition is). We thought we would have a polite conversation about it (in contrast to the nasty drama overtaking the space).|
|Mar 19, 2018|[Post-Maximalism / Motivated Ignorance, Chris DeRose](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eCXY6ELBw0M)|2h,3m,12s|Always nice to talk to Chris DeRose|
|Nov 15, 2017|[Daniel Krawisz and I talk Drivechain](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iMNLB7Q8z80)|42m,25s|DK and I talk about the problem of monopolist-developers that the user can't get rid of.|
|Aug 29, 2017|[Daniel Krawisz and I](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W2sgv8zNOt4)|1h,11m,00s|One of the first times I talk on air with DK, one of my favorite people -- super smart, super original, super crazy.|
|Jul 8, 2017|[Blocktime ep 11](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ega4yPyMhdM) w/ Mike Tidwell and Mike Casey|2h,44m,36s|These guys are great, did a bunch of episodes with them. Can't remember this one specifically other than the joke of me being an Eth person.|
|Mar 8, 2017|[Blockchain: The Oracle Problem](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/blockchain-oracle-problems/)|42m,55s|People tried to get a blockchain oracle for years - I review this history. Bitcoiners in 2020 still don't know many of the basics that I cover here.|
|Feb 11, 2017|[CryptoScam #5 w/ Tone Vays](https://tonevays.com/blog/cryptoscam-5-augur-w-paul-sztorc)|1h,1m,26s|Tone Vays and I discuss Augur and why it is a scam. Tone sort of dragged me to the side at a conference to do this - and it was really a lot of fun and I enjoyed it. The timing was great as I was about to present at QCon about the Oracle Problem, so this was a great "trial run". The QCon talk is better.|
|Feb 9, 2017|[BlockTime "ep 0" w/ Mike Tidwell and Mike Casey](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u-Xp_HoXrMc)|2h,00m,50s|I remember that this got very philosophical and that they both seemed to enjoy talking to me. (Or maybe that was some other intervew with them.) Or maybe this was before "blocktime" started. I can't remember.|
|Dec 1, 2015|[Me + Bitcoinference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KVsoo0PiSu8)|1h,15m,34s|Can't remember anything about this. But all of the Amsterdam Bitcoiners are very cool, especially back in 2015.|
|Jun 10, 2014|[Let's Talk Bitcoin #117](https://letstalkbitcoin.com/blog/post/lets-talk-bitcoin-episode-117-the-truth-matrix)|58m,20s|One of my first Bitcoin interviews ever -- all about "Truthcoin" (now Bitcoin hivemind).|



### The "Prediction Market Revolution" Presentation

This presentation slowly takes shape over time. The "best" one (clearest and shortest) so far is Anarchapulco-2019.

I wrote an all-important "Part 2" to Anarchapulco-2019, but because of Covid there's been no venue to give it. I think it will be quite the talk, when people finally understand it. 

|Sep 8, 2019|[Chicago Bitcoin Meetup](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nt2FMn5cNt0)|53m,32s|Elements of "part 2" are starting to take shape. Excellent group with good questions.|
|Feb 15, 2019|[**Anarachapulco** -- Politicians Toil, Voters Laze](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dJLYRADcPP4)|20m38s|I worked hard to get "The Presentation" (as I call it) down to 20m. Seemed to go VERY well so this is my favorite version. When I add Part 2, it will be truly complete!|
|Jul 5, 2018|[Prediction Markets on Bitcoin - Amsterdam Bitcoin Wednesday](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TdqrzL2UnhA)|1h,29m,05s|Technically on Thursday as part of a two-day 5th anniverserary. Phil Zimmerman and Amir Taaki were there. Phil tried to trip me up with a question about rank-order voting. Still a bit rambly and confused, relative to the clearer/shorter anarchapulco. This one has a Q&A.|
|Feb 6, 2018|[TabConf 2018 - Bitcoin Hivemind](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tzaVt7uN4p4)|49m,00s|Longer than Anarchapulco and with But this one is longer and has a couple very interesting digressions. To my surprise, some people that I respect like this one more than Anarchapulco.|





</div>


### Did I miss something?

If I didn't add something, you can find me on Twitter/Telegram. Or better yet, [pull request into this webpage](https://github.com/truthcoin/www.truthcoin.info/blob/gh-pages/rss/index.md) (and then find me).

Commit message:

Update index.md with latest appearances
Add recent appearances and update the dates of older appearances that were incorrect

rss/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: All Paul Sztorc Bitcoin Media Appearances
---



I've enjoyed speaking on many podcasts hosted by other people, but personally I am not sure that I am cut out to be a podcast host:

* Attracting and keeping an audience is hard work, and takes a lot of time.
* I don't like the idea of doing a "regular" show -- ie, a show every week (or so). I'd rather only do a show if I have something important to say. Something worthy of people's scarce time and attention.
* As a podcast audience grows, the "audience capture" problem can arise, where a host gives people what they want to hear instead of speaking his mind. 

Instead, I'm happy to go on *other people's shows* (invite me on! -- I almost always say yes!). Here I collect my appearances and interviews in a big list.



<!--
howtogeek.com/318401/how-to-find-or-create-an-rss-feed-for-any-website/
-->


### All Paul Sztorc Content

<a href="https://www.truthcoin.info/rss/paul-sztorc-rss.xml">
<img src="https://www.truthcoin.info/rss/pic_rss.gif" width="36" height="14">
</a>

<div class="appearances-list" markdown="1">

### General

| Date | Title/Link | Length | Comments |
|-|-|-|-|
|September 20, 2023|[Paul Sztorc Reacts to Baltic Honeybadger 2023 Panel (Giacomo Zucco, Peter Todd, John Carvalho)](https://youtu.be/FYgMovBjLbE)|1h,49m,29s|Paul shares his reaction to a recent panel discussion featuring Giacomo Zucco, Peter Todd, and John Carvalho.|
|September 18, 2023|[The Bitcoin Takeover podcast S14 E13: Paul Sztorc Reacts to Drivechains Reactions](https://www.youtube.com/live/3scYoymSsXk)|5h,16m,30s|Paul discusses Drivechain and Bitcoin again with Vlad Costea, host of the Bitcoin Takeover podcast|
|August 29, 2023|[The Bitcoin Takeover podcast S14 E10: Paul Sztorc on Drivechains & Attacking Bitcoin](https://www.youtube.com/live/RdyoOO_i7lk)|2h,40m,38s|Paul discusses Drivechain and Bitcoin with Vlad Costea, host of the Bitcoin Takeover podcast|
|August 16, 2023|[Digital Cash Network show: Saving Bitcoin with Drivechains: A Deep Dive with Paul Sztorc](https://youtu.be/f8FKEPthS7s)|1h,39m,46s|Paul is interviewed by the host of the Digital Cash Network show.|
|July 21, 2023|[The Stewart Mackenzie Indaba #37 Paul Sztorc + Fiatjaf](https://youtu.be/DimbBOF3h8A)|2h,34m,24s|Paul and Fiatjaf (creator of Nostr), and Stewart Mackenzie discuss Drivechain, Bitcoin, and related subjects.|
|May 23, 2023|[Demolishing Dogmas: The Rebels Reshaping the Bitcoin Battlefield and Crypto's Radical Architects Neel Somani, Leonard Dorlochter, and Paul Sztorc](https://www.untoldstories.com/demolishing-dogmas-the-rebels-reshaping-the-bitcoin-battlefield-and-cryptos-radical-architects-neel-somani-leonard-dorlochter-and-paul-sztorc/)|1h,14m,0s|Paul Sztorc discusses exciting layer-2 solutions with Charlie Shrem, Neel Somani, and Leonard Dorlochter.|
|May 20, 2023|[Bitcoin Conference: Transaction Censorship panel with Udi Wertheimer, Paul Sztorc, and others](https://youtu.be/Jitb_CAm3ME)|45m,19s|Craig Deutsch of Bitcoin Magazine hosts a panel discussing Bitcoin Transaction Censorship starring Nick Hansen of Luxor Technologies, Udi Wertheimer of Taproot Wizards, and Paul Sztorc of LayerTwo Labs at Bitcoin 2023 Mining Stage.|
|April 30, 2023|[Bitcoin++ Conference: Layer-2s: Panel Discussion w/ niftynei, John Light, Paul Sztorc, and Super Testnet](https://youtu.be/gzXzAtTvMhM)|58m,06s|Niftynei of Base58 joins John Light of Sovyrn, Paul Sztorc of LayerTwo Labs, and Super Testnet to talk about Layer 2s.|
|Jan 26, 2023|[Australian Bitcoin Podcast -- Paul Sztorc What are Sidechains and Drivechains Made](https://youtu.be/XJ_PNmCo4b0)|1h,31m,32s|Paul Sztorc is interviewed on the history of sidechains, merged mining, and Drivechain.|
|Jan 15, 2023|[Shitcoin TV -- Paul Sztorc on Bitcoin Sidechains](https://youtu.be/29PVPJilHcA)|36m,33s|Paul Sztorc is interviewed regarding Drivechain, the Hivemind project, and the future.|
|Jan 19, 2023|[The Kevin Rooke Podcast -- Paul Sztorc on Drivechain (BIP 300/301), Bitcoin Sidechains, and Building Layer Two Labs](https://youtu.be/Z0Ax61bLTIM)|2h,6m,14s|Kevin Rooke interviews Paul Sztorc on the history of Drivechain, the advantages and disadvantages of sidechains on Bitcoin, and the founding of LayerTwo Labs.|
|Dec 23, 2022|[The Mining Pod (Compass Mining)-- Drivechains For Miners? Exploring Layer 2's](https://youtu.be/Q6RuM2I-gGQ)|45m,32s|Will Foxley interviews Paul Sztorc and Austin Alexander on the founding of their Bitcoin-focused company, LayerTwo Labs, Inc.|
|Nov 22, 2022|[Bitcoin Takeover -- Paul Sztorc on Baltic HoneyBadger 2022 & BIP300](https://youtu.be/jVkjlue7f8M)|54m,2s|Vlad Costea and Paul Sztorc discuss Baltic HoneyBadger 2022 and BIP300.|
|Oct 12, 2022|[Bitcoin 2022 Amsterdam -- The Future of Sidechains](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CuKPIUO1pVA)|36m,12s|Aaron van Wirdum proves to the world that yes, after all, Adam Back does indeed support Bip300.|
|Sep 4, 2022|[Baltic Honeybadger 2022 -- Panel: Unpopular Opinions](https://youtu.be/Hdx5qUvYcgA?t=1234)|1hr,15m|A very fun panel with other Bitcoiners.|
|Sep 3, 2022|[Baltic Honeybadger 2022 -- Debate: Paul vs Carvalho](https://youtu.be/zp1B_i4JlXc?t=11100)|22m,3s|Does John Carvalho know anything about Drivechain? Should any user who wants to leave BTC for a different ruleset be stopped, against their own will? Find out here!|
|Sep 3, 2022|[Baltic Honeybadger 2022 -- Panel: Sidechains & L2](https://youtu.be/zp1B_i4JlXc?t=5220)|30m|The main conclusion was that Bitcoin will need a diverse "spectrum" of L2s; Bitcoin should rely only on the Lightning Network.|
|Aug 12, 2022|[What Bitcoin Did - Should Drivechains Come to Bitcoin?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A4VVVhwuCFI)|1hr,20m,38s|Me on the famous Peter McCormack show. I think the beginning was a little rough, but they eventually seemed to get it.|
|Aug 11, 2022|[Built on Bitcoin #83](https://www.builtonbitcoin.xyz/e83-bip300-the-bitcoin-change-that-makes-all-others-obsolete-paul-sztorc-interview/)|1hr,04m,05s|This interview went really well! We talked about Bip300 and its status in today's Bitcoin culture.|
|Jul 12, 2022|[Bitcoin Maximalism Spaces w/ Pete Rizzo](https://twitter.com/i/spaces/1gqxvllkrnpGB)|1hr,53m,58s|A conversation where I say Bitcoin Maximalism has absorbed many harmful ideas which it struggles to purge, leading to risk for Bitcoin owners.|
|Apr 8, 2022|[Bitcoin 2022 - Sidechains (Benefits & Tradeoffs)](https://youtu.be/OwJL0J_nPDE?t=11866)|40m|My sidechains panel; RSK; Liquid; development; fun.|
|Apr 7, 2022|[Bitcoin 2022 - Soft Forks (Benefits & Tradeoffs)](https://youtu.be/L0Yh6VP6vxU?t=7011)|40m|Softforks panel w/ me, Jeremy Rubin, Jimmy Song; moderated by BtcSessions.|
|Apr 7, 2022|[Kitco - Bitcoin 2022 Media Room](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Elm35rym74U)|16m|An interesting interview -- basics of the Bitcoin investment thesis, macroeconomics, and of course sidechains.|
|Nov 5, 2021|[TabConf 2021 - BIP 300](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NK2IvzDz7pk)|25m,44s|Even *better* than the June Bitcoin2021 talk -- 10 minutes longer.|
|Aug 12, 2021|[Blockchain Debate Podcast: Toxic maximalism (Giacomo Zucco vs. Me)](https://blockdebate.buzzsprout.com/767033/9020992-motion-toxic-maximalism-is-great-for-bitcoin-giacomo-zucco-vs-paul-sztorc)|1h,34m,31s|Giacomo and I talk about toxic maximalism. We agreed more than disagreed. I think the conversation would have been more interesting if we interrupted each other more. Too polite and not very toxic.|
|Jul 3, 2021|[Bip 300 Debate: JW Weatherman vs Me](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PziBY3qOS48)|1h,21m,43s|In my opening remarks I mentioned that Drivechain was an improvement over Blockstream's 2014 paper. I regret mentioning that, because I think this guy is so clueless that it never occured to him to look up any of the technical details whatsoever. I could have instead, just asked him 'what is bip300' and he would have gone down in flames immediately. Anyway, he was clearly unprepared making this mostly a waste of everyone's time.|
|Jun 10, 2021|[Drivechain Q&A - Paul Sztorc at Crosschain Miami](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m8nN-SSBr1g)|22m,37s|Me, in Miami, being brought onstage unexpectedly after a night of drinking to do a Drivechain Q&A.|
|Jun 10, 2021|[Bitcoin 2021: Drivechain Demo (BIP 300)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oga8Pwbq9M0)|15m,57s|Bip300 explained... in just 15 minutes! Highly recommended.|
|Mar 1, 2021|[ZCash Sidechain](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N33iJK2FdpE)|21m,58s|Me, demo-ing our zcash sidechain. As well as my "melt/cast" privacy technology.|
|Dec 20, 2020|[Silent Night V3](https://twitter.com/mikeinspace/status/1340698646074015746?s=20)|1m,11s|Shorter, and with no mikeinspace, this time!|
|Dec 17, 2020|[A Bitcoin Christmas: Silent Night](https://youtu.be/737mPDwhaQM)|1m,47s|Me playing piano in mikeinspace's Twitter band.|
|Dec 16, 2020|[Bitcoin Stories Episode 048](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HQ3fqkPeQCc&feature=emb_logo)|1h,30m,35s|A really great talk where I answer the "Thiel Question" -- what's something you believe that most people don't agree with you on: many of the people you love will die because of the US stance toward betting. Thanks to Zack Hess for fixing up the audio.|
|Dec 14, 2020|[Bitcoin Reservations #004 - Smart wife asterisk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BDIK2IBqCUk)|2h,33m,20s|Show is finally starting to get good.|
|Dec 7, 2020|[Bitcoin Reservations #003 - Twin sister hard fork](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a70vaR_dFJ0)|2h,33m,20s|Still the beginnings aren't great, but they are getting there.|
|Nov 30, 2020|[Bitcoin Reservations #002 - The prodigal son](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rn0NaAyNFDA)|2h,16m,37s|The beginning isn't good at all but, it picks up steam quickly.|
|Nov 23, 2020|[Bitcoin Reservations #001 - Opposite of Meditation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qj4O6d48nlQ)|2h,19m,07s|A new podcast that (sort of) pays homage to Bitcoin Uncensored.|
|Nov 13, 2020|[CryptoVoices - Drivechain & Bitcoin Hivemind](https://soundcloud.com/cryptovoices/show-98-paul-sztorc-drivechain-bitcoin-hivemind-and-much-more)|3h,11m,49s|Good (and long) discussion of my two big interests/projects (sidechains and prediction markets), and my general approach to life.|
|Sep 17, 2020|[Me & Rafael LaVerde (VamosVigiliante), on Drivechain](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BbcIAaWScUc&feature=emb_logo)|1h,46m,11s|The third of three videos in my "week of BTC vs BCH/BSV debates". Rafael asked really good questions and is a great example of the kind of person I was hoping that drivechain and hivemind would appeal to. Lighter and more down to earth than the other two.|
|Sep 16, 2020|[BTC BCH BSV. Me vs Steve Patterson](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qdDwwMKb2ow)|2h,13m,58s|Steve seems to be a real independent thinker, and a semi-outcast in BCH -- a similar position to me in BTC. I refuse to "cluster" my beliefs (ie, to ALWAYS believe the ALL the same things the other Maximalists), and Steve seems to act likewise. After we recorded this, we kept talking for like 3 more hours.|
|Sep 13, 2020|[Me (BTC) vs Daniel Krawisz (BSV), on Partyline](https://twitter.com/MDF_365/status/1305224590679896064?s=20)|1h,40m,47s|My duel with the infamous Emperor of Bitcoin. I was very worried that I would be crushed, and [prepared extensively](https://www.truthcoin.info/files/2020-09-13-krawisz-debate-prep.pdf). It seemed to pay off, because although he definitely controlled the very beginning, I got some good points in throughout.|
|Apr 6, 2020|[Delphi Podcast - Security Budget - Dan Held vs Paul Sztorc](https://anchor.fm/the-delphi-podcast/episodes/Dan-Held-and-Paul-Sztorc-Debating-Bitcoins-Security-e1fn2kn)|1h,16m,51s|In what will go down as one of the most depressing periods in Bitcoin's history, the age of delusional bitcoin optimists, arrives this stupid debate with Dan Held. It is not worth watching because Dan was wrong about everything.|
|Mar 17, 2020|[Me on Shitcoin.tv again](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9QjqPQIjccw)|31m,34s|I REALLY enjoyed this talk. I think it is the type of content that you can't get anywhere else. Zcash as a sidechain, Handshake and decentralized naming, MimbleWimbleCoin shilling, Bitcoin maximalism once again|
|Feb 25, 2020|Marty Bent's [Tales from The Crypt #136](https://anchor.fm/tales-from-the-crypt/episodes/136-Paul-Sztorc-eb2i11)|2h,29m,22s|This podcast suffered from a long (and unexpected) digression into Proof of Stake at the very beginning (I guess that a lot of people would find it not interesting). Then it gets better -- fee market, Drivechain, and Prediction Markets.|
|Nov 8, 2019|[BTC vs BCH Debate - Me vs. Vin Armani, Hosted by Hotep Jesus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TkJt20f8tw4)|2h,36m,53s|To be honest with you, I was totally distracted during this conversation. It probably sounds silly to you, but my mind was blown that a reality TV star and marketer for 50 cent would be interested in my opinion on anything. Plus Vin was buttering me up the whole time before and during the show!|
|Sep 12, 2019|[Me on "A Game of Shitcoins"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i9hBAhr65lI)|9m,06s|Trivia contest vs the great Andreas Brekken.|
|Jul 18, 2019|[Unhashed Podcast #42](https://www.unhashedpodcast.com/episodes/paul-sztorc-prediction-markets)|2h,00m,29s|Prediction markets in theory and practice, Veil, VeriBlock, BTCPay Server, Trump, LN justice transactions". Unhashed is probably the best Bitcoin podcast of 2019-2020.|
|Jun 25, 2019|[Bitcoin 2019 Krawisz Ambush](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yxv5zTX9GeQ)|5m,23s|This is one of my favorite things to ever happen -- Daniel Krawisz randomly ambushing people to grill them on BSV. I literally had no idea what he would ask and knew it would be adversarial "gotcha" journalism, but I just like DK so much I thought it would be fun to walk into the lion's den. Honestly I had a lot of fun people seemed to like my answers.|
|Dec 19, 2018|[Me on Shitcoin.TV](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=otctbwsZzfI)|1h,00m,00s|Discussion of drivechain, hivemind, and more. These guys are the best :)|
|Sep 30, 2018|[Let's Talk Bitcoin #377 -- Drivechains (and the Apple Store)](https://letstalkbitcoin.com/blog/post/lets-talk-bitcoin-377-sidechains-drivechains-and-the-apple-store)|48m,34s|I return to LTB -- the guys try to help me explain Drivechain.|
|Oct 10, 2018|[Whalepool Interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VmN6riYe2tI)|2h,44,38s|I remember this as conversation among crticial Maximalists - sort of. "Immense knowledge dropped on bitcoin development, prediction markets, and much more in a 3 hour talk from Paul Sztorc!"|
|Aug 21st 2018|[Humans of Bitcoin (1) - A True Bitcoin Polymath](https://www.stitcher.com/show/humans-of-bitcoin/episode/a-true-bitcoin-polymath-paul-sztorc-part-1-55778509)|33m,00s|I was interviewed for the (then) new Bitcoin.com podcast. As often happens, I talked so much that they had to cut it into two parts. This part is more about me and my history.|
|Aug 21, 2018|[Humans of Bitcoin (2) - Blockchain Prediction Markets](https://www.stitcher.com/show/humans-of-bitcoin/episode/prediction-markets-decision-making-and-politics-paul-sztorc-part-2-55881058)|33m,26s|Part 2 -- I talk a lot about prediction markets and their usage.|
|Jul 5, 2018|[Paul Sztorc Explores Bitcoin Conflicts and Controversies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eOZFJW4HGxk)|49m, 26s|Justin Bons (BCH supporter) and I disagreed about some things, but agreed about some other things (like how silly Bitcoin Core is getting, and how important competition is). We thought we would have a polite conversation about it (in contrast to the nasty drama overtaking the space).|
|Mar 19, 2018|[Post-Maximalism / Motivated Ignorance, Chris DeRose](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eCXY6ELBw0M)|2h,3m,12s|Always nice to talk to Chris DeRose|
|Nov 15, 2017|[Daniel Krawisz and I talk Drivechain](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iMNLB7Q8z80)|42m,25s|DK and I talk about the problem of monopolist-developers that the user can't get rid of.|
|Aug 29, 2017|[Daniel Krawisz and I](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W2sgv8zNOt4)|1h,11m,00s|One of the first times I talk on air with DK, one of my favorite people -- super smart, super original, super crazy.|
|Jul 8, 2017|[Blocktime ep 11](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ega4yPyMhdM) w/ Mike Tidwell and Mike Casey|2h,44m,36s|These guys are great, did a bunch of episodes with them. Can't remember this one specifically other than the joke of me being an Eth person.|
|Mar 8, 2017|[Blockchain: The Oracle Problem](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/blockchain-oracle-problems/)|42m,55s|People tried to get a blockchain oracle for years - I review this history. Bitcoiners in 2020 still don't know many of the basics that I cover here.|
|Feb 11, 2017|[CryptoScam #5 w/ Tone Vays](https://tonevays.com/blog/cryptoscam-5-augur-w-paul-sztorc)|1h,1m,26s|Tone Vays and I discuss Augur and why it is a scam. Tone sort of dragged me to the side at a conference to do this - and it was really a lot of fun and I enjoyed it. The timing was great as I was about to present at QCon about the Oracle Problem, so this was a great "trial run". The QCon talk is better.|
|Feb 9, 2017|[BlockTime "ep 0" w/ Mike Tidwell and Mike Casey](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u-Xp_HoXrMc)|2h,00m,50s|I remember that this got very philosophical and that they both seemed to enjoy talking to me. (Or maybe that was some other intervew with them.) Or maybe this was before "blocktime" started. I can't remember.|
|Dec 1, 2015|[Me + Bitcoinference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KVsoo0PiSu8)|1h,15m,34s|Can't remember anything about this. But all of the Amsterdam Bitcoiners are very cool, especially back in 2015.|
|Jun 10, 2014|[Let's Talk Bitcoin #117](https://letstalkbitcoin.com/blog/post/lets-talk-bitcoin-episode-117-the-truth-matrix)|58m,20s|One of my first Bitcoin interviews ever -- all about "Truthcoin" (now Bitcoin hivemind).|



### The "Prediction Market Revolution" Presentation

This presentation slowly takes shape over time. The "best" one (clearest and shortest) so far is Anarchapulco-2019.

I wrote an all-important "Part 2" to Anarchapulco-2019, but because of Covid there's been no venue to give it. I think it will be quite the talk, when people finally understand it. 

|Sep 8, 2019|[Chicago Bitcoin Meetup](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nt2FMn5cNt0)|53m,32s|Elements of "part 2" are starting to take shape. Excellent group with good questions.|
|Feb 15, 2019|[**Anarachapulco** -- Politicians Toil, Voters Laze](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dJLYRADcPP4)|20m38s|I worked hard to get "The Presentation" (as I call it) down to 20m. Seemed to go VERY well so this is my favorite version. When I add Part 2, it will be truly complete!|
|Jul 5, 2018|[Prediction Markets on Bitcoin - Amsterdam Bitcoin Wednesday](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TdqrzL2UnhA)|1h,29m,05s|Technically on Thursday as part of a two-day 5th anniverserary. Phil Zimmerman and Amir Taaki were there. Phil tried to trip me up with a question about rank-order voting. Still a bit rambly and confused, relative to the clearer/shorter anarchapulco. This one has a Q&A.|
|Feb 6, 2018|[TabConf 2018 - Bitcoin Hivemind](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tzaVt7uN4p4)|49m,00s|Longer than Anarchapulco and with But this one is longer and has a couple very interesting digressions. To my surprise, some people that I respect like this one more than Anarchapulco.|





</div>


### Did I miss something?

If I didn't add something, you can find me on Twitter/Telegram. Or better yet, [pull request into this webpage](https://github.com/truthcoin/www.truthcoin.info/blob/gh-pages/rss/index.md) (and then find me).
